---
layout: post
---

One of the challenges of having a blog with no titles running on Jekyll is figuring out filenames for my posts, and how the data Jekyll pulls from them interacts with Liquid front matter.  It seems like the front matter takes precedence, which sounded great at first because it meant I could just put a `date:` front matter in my posts and just ctrl-c files whenever I needed to make a new post. All my writing and editing, including changing the post time, would be from within the file only.  Great workflow, right?

However, Jekyll will complain "invalid date" if you try to build your site with `0000-00-00-post-title.md` as a post--it seems like `0001-01-01-post-title.md` will have to do.  I also tried `0001-01-01-.md`, which to my confusion replaced my entire blog with only that post.  I quickly realized I don't have posts under their own subdirectory within the blog so <!--break-->it just overwrites the main index page with the post's own.  I think I'll keep it that way anyway to keep my URLs cleaner.  

Anyway, I can't give all my posts the same filename, so I ended up scrapping the "ctrl-c" workflow (which, by the way, would have made trying to find a specific post by filename hilarious), scrapping the `date:` front matter, and just going with '2016-08-05-a.md' for my filename.  I guess the workflow is still simple, except for renaming the file which I've always believed is one of the most difficult human-computer interactions on Windows, but I don't know...there's something off-putting about pulling content information from a filename.

Something I discovered though is that if you're interested in putting *times* on your posts, you **will** have to use the `layout:` front matter.  Which means you'll either be typing the date out twice per post, or just dealing with incorrect dates on your posts' filenames.  I guess this really isn't a big issue at all in terms of how Jekyll is written, but it's definitely a usability design kink.  

*Seriously though, is it just me, or does anyone else just get very uncomfortable when they slow-double-click on a filename and that little edit box comes up with your filename highlighted?  I think it has something to do with the mindset that the entire file is encapsulated under the filename (which isn't quite true), so having the filename be so transient feels dangerous.  I don't get quite as uncomfortable when I copy the file first and then rename it, so that must be it.  It might also have to do with the fact that slow-double-clicking to rename is the basic computer input task that I mess up most frequently.*