---
layout: post
---

*We need to redefine what "augmented reality" means.*

It's funny, people (especially older people) *really* do a bad job of understanding what AR is.  Yes, Pokemon Go is AR, but not because it shows a Pidgey on your screen over your camera image and moves it around as you move your phone.  It's AR because its putting virtual activity into the real world, so that hundreds of New Yorkers stampede across central park to look for a Vaporeon that only exists in the cloud somewhere, so that you can find Pokestops at all your local churches and neighborhood signs.  

The AR that we talk about when we you see a Diglett in your bedroom <!--break-->(which is really hardly AR at all even in the traditional sense), when Google Translate looks at the picture of text on an American cerial box and turns it into Chinese, or when you point an iPad camera at a [114 foot fiducial marker and it overlays more art on top of your art](http://massmoca.org/clifford-ross-landscape-seen-imagined/) isn't the same as what Google Glass or HoloLens do.  Those are entirely different monsters of AR that stand out partially because they're wearable but more importantly because they're completely unlimited in their application environment.  I don't blame people for not understanding that, becuase it's something [really hard to wrap your head around before you've actually used one of those devices, which I was lucky enough to do](http://www.grchen.com/blog/08-06-2016-b.html).  However, I do blame people for no recognizing a larger-scale category of AR, a category that includes Pokemon's Go geographic elements, Ingress, and Geocaching *(that sentence is a perfect example of why we need the Oxford comma by the way)*.  

Thus, I'm suggesting that we clearly categorize augmented reality into three different species:

* **Geographic Augmented Reality** (Geocaching, Pokemon Go, Ingress, even GPS navigation)
* **Limited-environment Spatial Augmented Reality** (Google Goggles, Google Translate, QR codes)
* **Full-environment Spatial Augmented Reality** (HoloLens, Google Glass, Heads-up Displays)

Geographic augmented reality gives virtual feedback for real-world geography.  Limited-environment spatial AR augments the immediate 3D world around you, but is confined to certain spaces or use cases; you have to be behaving a certain way for it to be active and useful, holding a camera up for example.  This differs from full-environment AR, which is useful anywhere at any time without changing your behavior.  That's why I consider a pilot's HUD an example of FSAR, because a pilot doesn't have to do anything special to use it.  He just keeps looking straight ahead and the information is there.

I'm trying to think of more ways augmented reality manifests itself, but no convincing examples come to mind that we'd naturally call augmented reality.  Is a real-time voice changer AR?  How about a [medical simulation manikin that virutaly mimics real human physiology](http://www.laerdal.com/us/SimMan3G)?  The bounds of AR are indeed flexible, but the things we usually consider AR have some quality them that makes them identifiably AR, some complexity that's hard to define.  Why should we consider Pokemon Go or Geocaching AR, but not GPS navigation?  Both take your real-world position and give you virtual feedback.  

I think the difference may be that the things we call AR also give you *real world* feedback for *virtual* activity, like Geocaching or HoloLens or...oh wait, Ingress doesn't really give you any real-world feedback.  Hmm, well maybe thats why the term "mixed reality" came about.  Maybe as long as something gives you real-world feedback **or** involves fictional virtual augmentation, it's AR?  I don't know, but the fact that we unanimously agree that Ingress is AR but nobody thinks of Geocaching as AR tells me that we need to rethink how we define the term.  A Laerdal simulation manikin simulates hundreds of physiological parameters that the physical manikin can respond to, and that themselves respond to a student's interactions.  Why isn't that AR?  Maybe we need a third category:

* **Other Augmented Reality** (Medical simulation manikins, electronic keyboards)

Maybe we need to start thinking about how AR is already manifested in so many electronics in our daily lives, about all the different categories and formats of AR, so that when the truly revolutionary AR tech comes along we won't have trouble understanding that it's different from Pokemon Go.  Maybe we should start talking about Geocaching and even GPS navigation as AR, and that will help us better prepare for [the forthcoming revolution in how we think (or shouldn't think) about human-computer interaction](http://www.grchen.com/blog/08-06-2016-b.html).  